# Police urge landlords, property agents to screen tenants as scam syndicates target luxury homes

PROPERTY owners and real estate agents in George Town have been urged to conduct background checks on prospective tenants to prevent their premises from being exploited as operation centres for online scam syndicates.

Penang Police Chief Datuk Dennis Lim Kwang Keng said the warning was necessary as criminal groups were becoming increasingly sophisticated by renting luxury homes as locations to conduct fraudulent activities.

He said landlords should not accept tenants without first verifying their identities and backgrounds.

“We urge all property owners who wish to rent out their premises to conduct background checks on prospective tenants. If the arrangements are made through agents, they should also verify the background of the agents involved.

“Do not accept any tenants without carrying out proper checks, as this measure can help prevent premises from being misused for criminal purposes,” he said during a press conference at the North-East District Police Headquarters (IPDTL) today.

Dennis was commenting on police success in dismantling five online scam centres believed to have begun operating in Penang between one and two months ago.

Addressing concerns over international scam syndicates targeting luxury residential areas in the state, he said police did not rule out such a possibility.

“If we make assumptions, criminals may also choose luxury areas with security guards. That is one possibility because they may believe such locations are suitable for concealing their activities.

“However, police will cooperate with authorities from the countries involved in accordance with international legal provisions and conduct investigations under the Immigration Act against all suspects detained,” he said.

Recently, Penang police uncovered human exploitation activities as well as job scam and fake investment syndicates through several separate raids in Seberang Perai Tengah (SPT) and the North-East district.

The operations resulted in the arrest of 109 individuals, including a Taiwanese man believed to have acted as an employer and operator involved in the alleged human exploitation activities.

<br><br>
Source: [The Vibes](https://www.thevibes.com/articles/news/125328/police-urge-landlords-property-agents-to-screen-tenants-as-scam-syndicates-target-luxury-homes)