# Niah National Park closed after limestone hill fire, visitors advised to defer trips

KUCHING (July 14): Sarawak Minister of Tourism, Creative Industry and Performing Arts Dato Sri Abdul Karim Rahman Hamzah has apologised to visitors whose plans to visit Niah National Park in Miri were disrupted following its temporary closure due to a fire at a limestone hill.

Echoing a statement by the Sarawak Forestry Corporation (SFC), he said the fire was believed to have been caused by a lightning strike following heavy rain accompanied by thunder and lightning in the area at about 7am.

“This is just some unfortunate incident which is not because of negligence or callousness of people on the ground but because of a natural phenomenon.

“I can’t really put it as a disaster either as it is a natural phenomenon,” he told a press conference at Bangunan Baitulmakmur II here.

Also present during the press conference were the ministry’s Heritage and Creative Industry Division head Dr Elena Gregoria Chai Chin Fern, and BRS race director Awang Saifeluddin Awangku Karim.

Abdul Karim expressed hope that the fire would not spread further and cause extensive damage to the forest and natural heritage of the area.

“I hope SFC, with the assistance of the Fire and Rescue Department if necessary, will be able to contain the situation and prevent greater damage,” he said.

He advised visitors who had planned trips to Niah National Park to monitor updates before travelling.

“If your visit is scheduled around this period, defer it for a while and come another time. We are very sorry for the inconvenience,” he said.

Sarawak Fire and Rescue Department (JBPM) director Jamri Masran said the department had requested assistance from its Miri-based Air Unit to conduct water bombing operations due to the fire’s difficult-to-access location.

In a recent statement, SFC said an inspection by the park’s monitoring team confirmed two fire locations — one at the limestone hill near Sungai Tangap and another beside Traders Cave.

“The park management received a report of thick smoke around 9am, believed to have originated from a fire at the limestone hill area,” it said.

SFC said the fire was spreading, with explosions heard from the limestone formations, raising concerns that rocks could crack and fall onto the trail leading to Traders Cave and surrounding areas, including the Tangap community stalls.

As a precautionary measure, all trails within the national park have been temporarily closed until further notice, it said.

<br><br>
Source: [The Borneo Post](https://www.theborneopost.com/2026/07/14/niah-national-park-closed-after-limestone-hill-fire-visitors-advised-to-defer-trips/)    
By: Kentigern Minggu