# Kuala Lumpur: The Federal Capital

Kuala Lumpur or KL, Malaysia's capital is situated some 393 miles (630 km) north of Singapore and some 30 miles (48 km) from Port Klang on the west coast of Peninsular Malaysia.

When Sir J G Davidson was appointed as the 2nd British Resident in Selangor in 1879, the British moved its base from Port Klang to KL in 1880. Upon the death of Yap Ah Loy (a Hakkha) the 3rd Kapitan of KL in 1885, Sir Frank Swettenham who was then the British Resident of Selangor took over the administration of KL and made KL the capital for the state of Selangor in 1887, a year after the railway to Port Swettenham (Port Klang) was opened. When the Federated Malay states comprising Selangor, Perak, Pahang and Negeri Sembilan was formed in 1896, KL was chosen as its capital. KL also became the capital of the Federation of Malaya which was formed in January 1948 after the collapse of the Malayan Union government. It was the capital of independent Malaya from 31.8.1957 till the 16.9.1963 when it became the capital of the newly formed Federation of Malaysia. It however ceased to be the capital of Selangor in 1978 when Shah Alam was declared as the state's new capital.

KL was the first in Malaysia to attain city status in 1972. Being the capital of the Federation, it is the nation's busiest city. KL which became a federal territory on 1.2.1974 falls under the jurisdiction of the Federal Government pursuant to the Constitution (Amendment) (No. 2) Act 1973 (or **A206**). It follows therefore that although in the March 2008 general election, the opposition won 10 out of KL's 11 parliamentary seats, KL is still by virtue of **A206** under the control of BN, the party that won the overall control of the Federal government with 140 seats in the 222-seat federal legislature.

KL's population had grown from only 2,000 in the early 1850s (10,000 in 1870) to 80,424 by 1921 and 111,738 by 1931. It now has a population of close to 2 million.

A good network of rail transport is also available from KL to the north up to Bangkok and to the south to Singapore. The southern bound line also branches from a town called Gemas in the State of Johore to the East Coast of the Peninsular and terminates up north at Tumpat in the State of Kelantan.

<br><br>
Source: [MALAYSIA: Who's Who Constitution Government & Politics (Page 62)](https://www.google.com.my/books/edition/Malaysia/_gJMQwAACAAJ)